Update the Cumulocity user documentation to include details on the new Certificate Authority feature, covering device registration and CA creation. (#2985)
Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/certificate-authority.md

---
weight: 45
title: Certificate authority
layout: bundle
sector:
  - device_management
---

> Currently, X.509 certificate authentication in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} requires customers to manage their own PKI infrastructure, creating a significant adoption barrier.

Reviewer: This section is not really relevant for a user documentation. We do not talk about old versus new but only about the current state/version to which the documentation applies. @JanePorter What is your take?

Without a built-in way to issue and manage certificates on devices, adopting this secure authentication method becomes complex and operationally burdensome.
{{< product-c8y-iot >}} already supports certificate-based device authentication, ensuring secure communication through mutual authentication. However, this introduces an additional responsibility:

> Each device must have a trusted certificate, issued after legitimacy checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each device must have a trusted certificate, issued after legitimacy checks.
```

> These certificates need to be managed over time, including renewal and revocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These certificates need to be managed over time, including renewal and revocation.
```

> To streamline certificate management, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} has been enhanced to function as a Certificate Authority (CA), providing the following capabilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To streamline certificate management, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} includes a Certificate Authority (CA), providing the following capabilities:
```

>     Manage signing certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Manage signing certificates
```

>     Accept Certificate Signing Requests (CSR)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accept Certificate Signing Requests (CSR)
```

>     Perform legitimacy checks, as defined by each tenant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Perform legitimacy checks as defined by each tenant
```

>     Issue signed X.509 certificates trusted by the device tenant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue signed X.509 certificates trusted by the device tenant
```

---
weight: 45
title: Certificate authority
layout: bundle
sector:
  - device_management
---

Currently, X.509 certificate authentication in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} requires customers to manage their own PKI infrastructure, creating a significant adoption barrier.
Without a built-in way to issue and manage certificates on devices, adopting this secure authentication method becomes complex and operationally burdensome.
{{< product-c8y-iot >}} already supports certificate-based device authentication, ensuring secure communication through mutual authentication. However, this introduces an additional responsibility:

- Each device must have a trusted certificate, issued after legitimacy checks.
- These certificates need to be managed over time, including renewal and revocation.

To streamline certificate management, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} has been enhanced to function as a Certificate Authority (CA), providing the following capabilities:

- Manage signing certificates
- Accept Certificate Signing Requests (CSR)
- Perform legitimacy checks as defined by each tenant
Issue signed X.509 certificates trusted by the device tenant

> This enhancement removes the need for external PKI management, allowing customers to adopt X.509 authentication more easily and seamlessly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enhancement removes the need for external PKI management, allowing customers to adopt X.509 authentication more easily and seamlessly:
```

> This enhancement removes the need for external PKI management, allowing customers to adopt X.509 authentication more easily and seamlessly:

Reviewer: This information is also not relevant in the user documentation but only in a change log. @JanePorter What is your take?

---
weight: 45
title: Certificate authority
layout: bundle
sector:
  - device_management
---

> Currently, using X.509 certificate authentication in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} requires customers to have a PKI manager, which creates a significant barrier to adoption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, X.509 certificate authentication in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} requires customers to manage their own PKI infrastructure, creating a significant adoption barrier.
```

> This is especially challenging for thin-edge.io, where client certificates are a hard requirement for authentication. Without a built-in way to issue and manage certificates on devices, adopting this secure authentication method becomes complex and operationally burdensome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without a built-in way to issue and manage certificates on devices, adopting this secure authentication method becomes complex and operationally burdensome.
```

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} already supports certificate-based device authentication, ensuring secure communication through mutual authentication. However, this introduces an additional responsibility:

Each device must have a trusted certificate, issued after legitimacy checks.
These certificates need to be managed over time, including renewal and revocation.

> As thin-edge.io is a key initiative for Cumulocity, customer feedback highlights the need for a simpler approach to certificate management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Proposed Solution: Cumulocity as a Certificate Authority (CA)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> To streamline certificate management, we propose extending Cumulocity to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To streamline certificate management, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} has been enhanced to function as a Certificate Authority (CA), providing the following capabilities:
```

    Manage signing certificates
    Accept Certificate Signing Requests (CSR)
    Perform legitimacy checks, as defined by each tenant
    Issue signed X.509 certificates trusted by the device tenant

> This enhancement will eliminate the need for external PKI management, making it easier for customers to adopt X.509 authentication seamlessly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enhancement removes the need for external PKI management, allowing customers to adopt X.509 authentication more easily and seamlessly.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} CA service is based on the EST protocol due to its simple interactions between devices and the CA service. The following REST API endpoints support the provisioning and renewal of device certificates.
```
